docs: Connection Status page updates (#39387)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/cloud/managing-airbyte-cloud/review-connection-status.md

# Review the connection status

> The **Status** page for a connection displays information about the connection and the status of each stream being synced. Reviewing this page allows you to assess the connection's current status, understand when the next sync will be run, and observe sync trends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each connection you've set up in your Workspace has a **Status** page that displays the connection's current status, timing of the next scheduled sync, and a summary of historic sync trends. Reviewing this page allows you to monitor the health of your connection. 
```

![Connection Status](./assets/connection-status-page.png)

:::note
The Streams status and Records loaded graphs are available in Airbyte Cloud and Airbyte Enterprise.
:::

To view the connection status:

1. In the Airbyte UI, click **Connections**.

> 2. Each connection is listed alongside it's status. You can also filter for a specific status to see specific connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Each connection is listed alongside its status.  From here, you can filter for a specific status to see which connections need attention. You can also select a single connection to view more details about the connection and for a breakdown of the status of each Stream in that connection.  
```

| Status      | Description                                                                                         |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **Healthy** | The most recent sync for this connection succeeded                                                  |

Reviewer: From what I can tell, you can see the per-connection status on the main Connections page and then the per-stream status on the page for a single connection. The description for **Healthy** here mentions connections and the description for **Failed** mentions streams, but depending on which view you're looking at either of these statuses could apply to Connections or Streams, is that right?

Author: We actually only have a "Healthy" and "Failed" status for Connections, but not Streams. We do more derivation of a status for streams and the closest thing to "Healthy" we have is "On Time" for streams.  When a stream fails, it will get categorized into "On Track" , "Late" or "Error" depending on when the user sees it (note: we're planning on moving away from this as it's too complicated logic to understand, but that's what we have today). 

Hope that makes sense! I can explain more if that doesn't make sense. You called out correctly that I had a bad "Failed" description here that referred to streams when it should have said connection - just fixed that.

| **Failed**  | The most recent sync for this stream failed                                                         |
| **Running** | The connection is currently actively syncing                                                        |
| **Paused**  | The connection is disabled and is not scheduled to run automatically                                |

> 3. On the Status tab for a connection, the status is displayed as an icon to the left of the connection name. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the **Status** tab for a connection, there is a list of associated Streams. To the left of the name for each Stream, there is an icon that displays its status. 
```

## Review the stream status

> The stream status allows you to monitor an individual stream's latest status. Most connections will be syncing more than one stream, and this allows you to .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The stream status allows you to monitor an individual stream's latest status. Connections often sync more than one stream. This view allows you to more easily determine if there is a problem with a given stream that could be causing problems with the connection. 
```

| Status                   | Description                                                                                         |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **On time**              | The stream is operating within the expected timeframe expectations set by the replication frequency |
| **Syncing**              | The stream is currently actively syncing. The stream will also be highlighted in grey to indicate the sync is actively extracting or loading data.    |

> | **Queued**               | The stream has not synced yet, and is scheduled to be synced in the current ongoing sync            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Queued**               | The stream has not synced yet, and is in line to be synced in the current, ongoing, sync.           |
```

> | **Queued for next sync** | The stream has not synced yet, and is scheduled to be synced in the next scheduled sync             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Queued for next sync** | The stream has not synced yet, and is scheduled to be synced in the next scheduled sync.             |
```

| **On track**             | The connection is slightly delayed but is expected to catch up before the next sync. This can occur when a transient sync error occurs.    |

> | **Late**               | The connection has not loaded data within the scheduled replication frequency. For example, if the replication frequency is 1 hour, the connection has not loaded data for more than 1 hour                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Late**               | The connection has not loaded data within the scheduled replication frequency. For example, if the replication frequency is 1 hour, the connection has not loaded data for more than 1 hour.                                     |
```

> | **Error**              | The connection has not loaded data in more than two times the scheduled replication frequency. For example, if the replication frequency is 1 hour, the connection has not loaded data for more than 2 hours                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Error**              | The connection has not loaded data in more than two times the scheduled replication frequency. For example, if the replication frequency is 1 hour, the connection has not loaded data for more than 2 hours.                    |
```

> | **Action Required**    | A breaking change related to the source or destination requires attention to resolve                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Action Required**    | A breaking change related to the source or destination requires attention to resolve.                |
```

> | **Pending**            | The stream has not been synced yet, so not status exists                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Pending**            | The stream has not been synced yet, so no status exists.                                            |
```

Once the sync is complete, each stream displays the time since the last record was loaded to the destination. You can click **Last record loaded** in the header to optionally display the exact datetime the last record was loaded.

## Per-Stream Actions

In addition to the stream status, Airbyte offers several stream-specific actions that allow for precise management of your data. Clicking the three grey dots next to any stream opens the available options for the stream.

> - **Show in replication table** navigates you to the **Schema** tab of the connection, where the stream you selected is highlighted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Show in replication table** navigates you to the **Schema** tab of the connection, where the stream you selected is highlighted.
```

> - **Open details** opens the field selection pane for the stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Open details** opens the field selection pane for the stream.
```

> - [Refresh stream](/operator-guides/refreshes) repulls all historical data for the stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Refresh stream](/operator-guides/refreshes) repulls all historical data for the stream.
```

> - [Clear data](/operator-guides/clear) removes previously synced data from your destination for the stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Clear data](/operator-guides/clear) removes previously synced data from your destination for the stream.
```

## Connection Troubleshooting

The Status page offers users visibility into the recent history of your syncs. For Cloud and Enterprise users, the **Streams status** and **Records loaded** are shown for the last 8 syncs. To navigate quickly to the related sync history, hover over the graph and select the sync you're interested in viewing.

### Resolving Connection Errors

> If the most recent sync failed, you'll see the error message that will help to diagnose if the failure is due to a configuration or system error. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the most recent sync failed, you'll see the error message that will help to diagnose whether the failure is due to a configuration or system error. 
```

Configuration errors are highlighted in red. If the failure is due to a configuration error, Airbyte recommends navigating to the related source or destination to re-test and save before attempting another sync.

![Configuration Error](./assets/configuration-error.png)

> All other errors are highlighted in yellow. These can range from transient errors or warnings from the source (e.g. rate limits). We expect these to resolve themselves without any action required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All other errors are highlighted in yellow. These can range from transient errors to warnings from the source (e.g. rate limits). These types of errors usually resolve themselves without any action required. 
```
